# Capability-Enhancement-of-XRay-micro-CT-images using UNET
The dataset is provided by RRCAT, Indore. It containes X-Ray microtomography images of ice-cream stick created from bamboo.

The flow to run the files is as under:

Firsty from the Masksgeneration file , masks i.e. ring artifacts are generated by varying the five parameters: radius of the circle, thickness of the rings, number of rings , start angle and end angle.
Once, the masks are generated then run training data genration file which blends the ring artifacts on the original image.

In the file 4encoder_512base_Training, model training and validation has been performed using U-NET model. The model contains 4 encoder-decoder blocks and it has batch normalization with 0.3 dropout. The training SSIM obtained is 0.968 and validation SSIM is 0.9209 . Also at the end the ground truth, the predicted images with their corresponding ring artifact images has been shown.

In the file 5encoder_512base_Training, model training and validation has been performed using U-NET model. The model contains 5 encoder-decoder blocks and it has batch normalization with 0.3 dropout. The training SSIM obtained is 0.9534 and validation SSIM is 0.9548 . Also at the end the ground truth, the predicted images with their corresponding ring artifact images has been shown.

In the file 6encoder_512base_Training, model training and validation has been performed using U-NET model. The model contains 6 encoder-decoder blocks and it has batch normalization with 0.3 dropout. The training SSIM obtained is 0.9589 and validation SSIM is 0.8799 . Also at the end the ground truth, the predicted images with their corresponding ring artifact images has been shown.


